# UX-Design


## What is user experience design?

User experience design (abbreviation UX, UXD) – A discipline focused on
designing the end-to-end experience of a certain product. To design an
experience means to plan and act upon a certain set of actions, which should
result in a planned change in the behaviour of a target group (when interacting
with a product).

A UX designer’s work should always be derived from people’s problems and aim at
finding a pleasurable, seductive, inspiring solution. The results of that work
should always be measurable through metrics describing user behaviour. UX
designers use knowledge and methods that originate from psychology,
anthropology, sociology, computer science, graphic design, industrial design and
cognitive science.

## The heart of UX-design

Is constant iterative optimisation. The problem of future users. We need to spot
it, define it, feel the pain and eliminate it.

To stay on the right track we need  a lot of empathy and analytical skills,
because the tricky thing with problems is that we are having a hard time 
defining them. Even if they trouble us.

The key to success is to actually get to know your clients. Arm yourself with
empathy and talk to them.

## C-P-S hypothesis

If you've reached the target group and interviewed its members for a serious
problem, it's about time to define the basis of your product in a triangle.

[c-p-s-image.png](c-p-s-image.png)

Before the launch of a product everything is a hypothesis.

The C-P-S hypothesis is a basic description of any product. It reaches the core
of any succesful endeavour in a neat, minimalistic way.

My product is specified. The C-P-S hypothesis forms the backbone of the whole
product.
Each part of C-P-S is questionable on its own. I might wrongly describe the
target group. I could misunderstand a problem my target group is having. Or we
could create a product that doesn't address the problem users are facing.

## Canvas as a design tool

Alex Osterwalder writes in his book `Business Model Generation`  about an
amazing method of describing any business idea. The business Model Canvas (BMC).
This eight-field table can do what an extended business plan struggles to
achieve. It can explain your business and it resolves around the `Unique Value
Proposition (describing the way you're different from your competitors and why
you are worth spending money on)`

It also describes your idea, key partners, resources and model of revenue.

But how is it all connected to user experience design?

As we all know designing a user experience means taking care of the whole
product. The end-to-end experience is what you are aiming at. A BMC enables you
to grasp the basic fundamentals of the product in one place and understand at
glance the business and user side.

**Remember that any commercial project UX design cannot be separated from the
business model of a product**

[business_model_canvas_poster.jpg](business_model_canvas_poster.jpg)

It's divided into two parts (split right into the middle): Product and Market,
and it clearly shows exactly what your product is and who will benefit from its
use. A lean version of this canvas should be developed iteratively (just like
your product).

Great UX design stand upon efficient collaboration.

## The road to success
